volto-slate documentation (#3436)
plone/volto: docs/source/configuration/volto-slate/index.md

---
html_meta:
  'description': 'What is Volto slate'
  'property=og:description': 'What is Volto slate'
  'property=og:title': 'Volto slate'
  'keywords': 'Volto, Plone, frontend, React, slate, volto slate'
---

# Volto slate

An interactive default text editor for Volto, developed on top of [slate](https://docs.slatejs.org/) which offers enhanced WYSIWYG functionality and behavior. See a brief elevator pitch for volto-slate: https://youtu.be/SOz-rk5e4_w

> 

Reviewer: All the following should be one sentence per line. I will also make additional suggestions below.

Author: Resolved.

> We believe that, Volto's richtext form editor (the Volto

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe that Volto's rich text form editor (the Volto
```

Composite Page editor) needs strong integration between the rich text
capabilities and the rest of the Volto blocks. Some examples of the kind of
strong integration we have in mind:

- Pasting complex documents inside a volto-slate text block will create
  multiple Volto blocks: images will be converted to Volto Image blocks, tables

>   will be converted to Volto Table blocks, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  will be converted to Volto Table blocks, and so on.
```

> - The text block accepts drag&drop images and it will upload them as Volto Image blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The text block accepts drag-and-drop images, and it will upload them as Volto Image blocks.
```

> - volto-slate has a Table button with the familiar size input, but it create a Table block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `volto-slate` has a {guilabel}`Table` button with the familiar size input, but it create a Table block.
```

> While this addon is still in an early alpha stage, we've solved most of the big

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this add-on is in an early alpha stage, we have solved most of the big
```

> issues, the API starts to stabilize and we've already started several addons

Reviewer: ```suggestion
issues.
The API has stabilized, and we have already started several add-ons
```

> based on it: https://github.com/eea/volto-slate-metadata-mentions/ and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
based on it, including [`volto-slate-metadata-mentions`](https://github.com/eea/volto-slate-metadata-mentions/) and
```

> https://github.com/eea/volto-slate-zotero

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`volto-slate-zotero`](https://github.com/eea/volto-slate-zotero).
```

> ## Why

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why another WYSIWYG editor?
```

> Some of the main reasons that drove us to create volto-slate instead of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the main reasons that drove us to create `volto-slate`, instead of
```

> enhancing Volto's draftjs implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enhancing Volto's Draft.js implementation, include the following:
```

> - Volto's draftjs implementation depends on draft-js-plugins, a third-party

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Volto's Draft.js implementation depends on `draft-js-plugins`, a third-party
```

>   project that introduces its own set of bugs and maintanance issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  project that introduces its own set of bugs and maintenance issues.
```

> - Slate has a modern, developer-friendly api that makes developing plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Slate has a modern, developer-friendly API that makes developing plugins
```

>   something easy to do. Getting the editor in a plugin is as easy as `const editor = useSlate()`, overriding core functionality is something that's built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  easier.
  Getting the editor in a plugin is as easy as `const editor = useSlate()`.
  We can override core functionality, something that is built
```

  in as pluggable, directly in Slate.

> - Volto's draft based implementation depends on Redraft for its final output,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Volto's Draft.js-based implementation depends on Redraft for its final output,
```

  which comes with its own bugs and issues. While it is nice to have view-mode
  components, this is something that volto-slate implements just as well.
- Because Slate's internal storage uses a tree modeled on the DOM pattern, its

>   final rendered output is very clean. Note: The Slate editor value is a JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  final rendered output is very clean.
  Note: the Slate editor value is a JSON
```

>   object, similar to the Draftjs based implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  object, similar to the Draft.js-based implementation.
```

# Concepts

```{toctree}
:maxdepth: 2

> api-documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
api
```
